>> Jon Kuperman: We'll jump into what
I promise will be the shortest lesson
followed by an exercise but
it was something that I thought was really
important because I think it
gets skipped all too often.
It's often contentious with design teams.
And I think it's important as
accessibility experts that we kind of push
back a little bit and
that's focus management.
And so basically,
no matter your application,
you do need to be compliant,
some type of visual focus indicator.
This is absolutely crucial for keyboard
users, right as they're tabbing around,
they need some way of knowing
where they are in the document.
And I know this often conflicts
with the design vision for
certain applications, but there
are some really cool things you can do.
For example,
you don't need to have a hover indicator,
but you do need to have a focus indicator.
So it doesn't need to have a big blue
ring when you mouse over it, but
it does need to have a big ring when
people are tabbing through in some way to
make sure that it meets
the standard requirements.
So I find this to be the best compromise
where working with design teams.
And I'll say, cool, we can have no hover
item, but we are gonna have a focus style.
Alternatively, I think if
you sneak in a focus style,
most people don't notice because
they're not tabbing through.
So cool.
The focus requirements,
in order to be standards compliant,
indicators must have a minimum
contrast ratio of 3:1.
And we will later in an exercise
explore a cool color contrast picker so
we can get a good idea there.
The focus area needs to be
at least 2 pixels thick.
They need to be visible to both light and
dark modes.
Users need to have an idea of where they
are on the page no matter which light or
dark mode you're using.
Multiple indicators are always beneficial.
So thinking about something like
a background change plus an outline, but
they're not required.
Just the 2 px thick outline
is what's required.
And any kind of animations
could enhance visibility, but
they shouldn't be distracting from
navigating around on the page.
So with that,
we'll hop into a real quick exercise.
Focus styles, same repo, same website.
Just go over here and
there's not much to code here.
I just came up with a bunch of examples
that I've seen around the Internet and
was hoping everyone would
take a few minutes and
just kind of tab through them and
see kind of the difference it makes.
No focus outline, too thin of an outline,
all sorts of cool things like that.
So, yeah, if we can just take a quick
break here, kind of tab through and just
try to gain a little bit of empathy for
why these focus rings would be important.
So, yeah,
hopefully this one was just small, but
I just wanted to kind of give
this kind of experience.
With no focus outline,
it's impossible to know where you are.
Thin outlines can be okay,
but they're not great.
And as we kinda talked about earlier,
building empathy for people who have some
kind of vision loss and some inability
to maybe see such a subtle difference.
The low contrast one can be okay,
but it won't look good on dark mode.
And then when we get into some
other examples, like a big,
thick blue outline is nice.
Outline and background is great.
A little bit of an animation can be cool.
Again, for
this kind of compromise with design,
you'll notice that these
don't have any hover styles.
So you can still have full control
over your design system for
mouse hover effects while providing
a really good accessibility experience for
people tapping through.
Similarly, a little bit of an animation
background and border here, and
then a good visual indicator for
the cards.
So I actually find this a cool thing
to do as I go back to websites that
I use all the time,
like news websites or whatever.
Try tabbing through and seeing what
they've done for their focus experience,
cuz they often people
do really cool things.
Yeah, Mark.
>> Speaker 2: Is there any WCAG
rule that the focus indicator
has to be in a separate color than
the rest of the page, like not just black?
>> Jon Kuperman: If I think I understand
the question, then I think it's this one
that whatever the indicator is,
whether it's a background color,
a border needs to have a 3:1 contrast
ratio against whatever it's touching.
So you could have a black page,
a white section, and then elements in
that white section could have black.
You can reuse colors, but whatever the
indicator is against needs to have that
3:1 contrast ratio to be compliant.